Chess Game outline.



*TURN
Select piece and desired new coordinate.Function needs to:
    DONE-(Board grid with starting pieces populated)
    DONE-(Dictionary which maps square location strings(i.e. 'E4') to coordinate tuples as position in list of lists .
    DONE-Create print display that shows coordinates in  order x, y even though list prints y, x
    DONE-Identify piece current location.
    DONE-Calculate distance between current and desired location.
    DONE-Calculate slope between existing and desired location.
    DONE- Add boolean to allow pawn to move forward 2 if its the first move.  Add boolean to allow pawn to move
        diagonal if it is attacking enemy piece.
    DONE- Check if one your own pieces exists on the square you ask to move to.
    DONE -Add booleans to allow pawn to take en'passant.
    DONE - add booleans to prevent paws from moving backward, or from capturing pieces directly in front.
    DONE- REFACTOR Setup Grid and Coordinate Index so that future movements are on a traditional x,y axis.
    DONE-Make a list of pieces on whatever vertical, horizontal or diagonal your requested piece is moving and check each
        element to see if it is empty.  Check if pieces exist along line between existing and desired location.
    DONE -Add timer that keeps track of players time
    DONE-Add a function that checks and executes pawn promotion.
    DONE -Add castle function
    Done- Create a function that can determine whether the square you are moving to will have an open line to enemy pieces.
    DONE - Check if when move is complete, next player's legal moves include attack on king (CHECK)
    DONE - Add function that determines checkmate
    DONE - Add function that returns stalemate

TO DO-

-Add pause function for timer.
-Make Print statements only appear if the player is making a turn (not on the legal move checker)
-Make the import OS so that it overwrites instead of continues the page.
-Make a three move repeat sequence checker
-Finish debugging.






BEYOND PYTHON:
-add database that tracks username, password, game history and ELO score
-add UI that allows players to customize their playing squares, login and play online



BUGS:
Legal Moves available.test page returns line 311 local variable 'king_coordinates' referenced before assignment.
    -attempted solution.  set king_coordinates to None until they are triggered in boolean.  When I set the king coordinates
    to none they triggered check_coordinates to equal none when the king was selected as the destination square.
    -ok so I ran the legal move check without the "check" function and it worked fine.  Somehow I need to get the king check function
    in the right order so I can fix this....I'm seriously so fucking close this is like the last thing lol.  It will work for stalemate as well.


checkmate checker:  make a list of the pieces and coordinates that are remaining for a given player
in the format (piece, coordinates).  Then attempt to move each piece to every square on the board.
If a single result returns as a legal move, neither checkmate or stalemate is true.


CLEAN SAVE POINTS:  8:47pm

